‘Supplementary Text
‘Summaty of figures and tables

This section provides validation analyses, and extended results supporting the main study
on hemispheric asyminetry in global evapotranspiration (ET) trends. Supplementary Figures and
Tables are structured as follows:

Figures SI-S7 validate the ensemble machine learning framework. Figure SI maps the 183
large basins (=30,000 km?) used for model training and their area distribution. Figures $2-S4
demonstrate the accuracy of our model in reproducing trends in observed annual ET across the
basins actoss globe, the Southern Hemisphere and Northem Hemisphere, respectively. Under the
validation mode, our model can get high accuracy, with R? being 0.83, 0.81 and 0.79 for globe,
the Southem Hemisphere and Northern Hemisphere, respectively. This demonstrates the
robustness of our machine learning model. Figures S3S7 further demonstrate good agreement
between water balance-derived ET trends and machine learning-simulated trends across all
combinations of precipitation (CRU, GPCP, MSWEP) and terrestrial water storage change (CSR,
GSFC, JPL) datasets.

Figure S8 shows the spatial patterns of simulated amual ETT trends derived from models
trained on different water-balance ET combinations. Each simulation reveals a clear hemispheric
contrast between the Northem and Southern Hemispheres,

Figure $9 compares annual ET derived from the original JPL-GRACE dataset with that
from two downscaled JPL-GRACE products across the 183 sclocted basins. The original and
downscaled datasets are highly consistent, with an R? of 0.98 or higher. Figures $10 and S11
illustrate the agreement between water-balance-derived ET trends (obtained from downscaled
JPL terrestrial water storage change datasets) and machine-learning-simulated ET trends. Using
the downscaled datasets yielded similar cross-validation performance to using the original
datasets (see the JPL-based comparisons in Figures S5-S7).

Figure S12 analyzes the trend contributions and training data coverage for the Southern
Hemisphere. South Americaand the Amazon basin in particular—is a major contributor to the
recent ET decline in the Southern Hemisphere. Amazon River Basin accounted for more than
40% of the total trend. We also assessed the completeness of the streamflow (Q) records for the
‘basins used to train the machine leaning models. For most observed basins in the Southern
Hemisphere, the percentage of missing data during the 2000-2022 analysis period is below 20%,
lending high confidence to the modeling results based on this dataset.

Figure $13 reveals the spatially heterogeneous influence of ENSO (Nilo 3.4 index) on ET
anomalies, with strong negative correlations in Australia and southern Africa and positive
correlations in western North Ametica and Central Asia,

Figure $14 shows spatial patterns of trends in precipitition (Pr), potential
evapotranspiration (PET), and leaf area index (LAI). Figure 15 compares times series of annual-
‘mean air temperature (Ta) and precipitation (Pr) alongside annual ET. Figures $16 show spatial
patterns of trends in individual ancillary variables (net radiation, vapor pressure deficit, and wind
speed), contextualizing the mechanistic drivers of hemispheric asyrametry.

Figure $17 contrasts our hemispheric ET trends against five diagnostic BT products and 32
CMIP6 Earth System Models (ESMS), highlighting systematic biases in conventional

2:
