46 Teaser

47 ‘Bvapotranspiration trends mask a split: Northern greening is offset by Southern drying
48 with global warming over last two decades

0

so. MAIN TEXT

31

52 Introduction

3

54 An intensification of the global water cycle is widely expected under climate change, with
38 rising temperatures leading to increased evapotranspiration (ET), the critical process

56 whereby water is transferred from land (where is has the liquid phase) to the atmosphere
37 (where is it a gas), controlling the large-scale terrestrial redistribution of water and energy
58 and ultimately altering pattems of water availability (/). While some studies show signs of
59 this acceleration in historical records (2-6), regional ET trends remain inconsistent and

6o poorly constrained (3, 7-10). It is well recognized that existing ET products have large

a uncertainties due to the complex interplay of climatic and biophysical drivers that

a influence ET across spatial and temporal scales (11-14).

63 Among the key components of the terrestrial hydrological cycle—precipitation, ET,

w runoff, water storage changes—ET is particularly challenging to quantify due to its

65 invisible nature and high spatial-temporal variability (J/, 15), and the most uncertain (6).
66 Over the past decade, extraordinary efforis have been made to improve understanding of
@ global ET’s magnitude, variability, and trends using eddy covariance flux network, remote
8 sensing, land surface models, and reanalysis datasets (3, !4, 17-24). These approaches

0 hhave advanced our ability to estimate ET locally, regionally, and globally, linking

0 observed trends to global warming, land use and land cover changes, precipitation shifts,
n and climate variability and change. Machine learning and ensemble modeling techniques
2 have furthered ET science and trend assessments by merging diverse datasets, reducing

B uncertainties (25-27), and determining how model area of applicability around the world
” depends on choices of acceptable error or uncertainty level (28). Despite these

8 advancenients, quantifying spatial and temporal ET patterns remains one of the most

16 challenging tasks in global land hydrological studies. Direct compatison of various

” datasets for the same period (1980-2010) and land area coverage (29) shows greater

B dataset differences for global ET than precipitation and runoff. North-to-south

~ hemispheric disparities in ET trends may also emerge since water availability shows large
80, difference between the two hemispheres (/3). However, the ET trends and hemisphere

a1 disparities remain poorly resolved and represent a critical uncertainty in projecting future
82 water cycle intensification (11, 20, 30). Furthermore, emerging evidence suggests

83 fundamental hemispheric asymmetries in other hydrological and climatic variables, such
84 as water availability (13) and terrestrial water storage changes (31), raising the question of
85 whether ET trends might also exhibit such a large-scale divergence.

86 To address this challenge, we developed an ensemble machine-leaming approach that

87 integrates five diagnostic ET products with water balance observational ET constructed
88 using hydro-meteorological observations from 183 large basins that cover about half of
89. the global land area. The trained model was then applied to 232 globally distributed river
90, basins (> 10,000 km?) from the HydroSHEDS dataset for full global and hemispheric

91 analysis (see Methods). Unlike previous global ET assessments relying on simulation

92 model output ensembles or remote sensing data alone or estimating ET from ground data
93 for precipitation and streamflow, our new framework uniquely harmonizes basin-scale
